Interesting place :) I've heard great things about these hotels....hope to stay at one of the US locations if I never get to VN! Wish to visit Vietnam one day. more choices! good! These Hyatt hotels seem amazing. I would love to try this hotel experience! Bed on the photo look really perfect, I hope that I will stay in that kind hotel one day :-) lovely hotel in lovely Vietnam....Great review There is so much happening in Vietnam at the the moment. I hope to visit Vietnam one day.... so nice place Fantastic and luxury situation !!!Great This place sounds wonderful for a getaway! OMG what a beautiful place to stay! I could use a get away like this right about now. And just a heads up your site has a weird pop on in with a big "start" graphic on it. This is kind of off putting you may want to look in to this.Allie ofwww,allienyc.com Hyatt Hotels are among the bests!This one seems really wonderful!XOShttps://s-fashion-avenue.blogspot.com Such an awesome view. http://www.amysfashionblog.com/blog-home have a great Sunday! It looks mega luxurious: D :**Regards! What a marvelous place to stay!Kisses, Paola.Expressyourself ohh that looks such a nice place to stay in :)xoxo, raehttp://www.raellarina.netINSTAGRAM | TWITTER | FACEBOOK Oh, so beautiful place! a great location :) Estupenda entrada! gracias por tu visita! feliz dia!!! :-) :-) :-) Beautiful place This looks lovely, I would definitely like to experience the luxury like this one day.Love the post, and hope you have a great weekend :)Amy x Wandering Everywhere A lovely note makes a beautiful day! Thank you for dropping by Luxury Haven and taking the time to let me know your thoughts :) Long haul flight leaves you dehydrated and weary, regardless of you flying the Economy, Business or even First Class. Trust me, the air up... Beauty and Dining Reviews Health and Wellness Reviews Travel Reviews Yummy Recipes Giveaways and Special Readers' Discounts Get connected with the latest updates! Join our mailing list, and you will never miss a post again.