Use Windows side-by-side with macOS (no restarting required) on your MacBook®, MacBook Pro, iMac®, iMac Pro, Mac mini® or Mac Pro®. Share files and folders, copy and paste images and text & drag and drop files between Mac and Windows applications. Parallels Desktop automatically detects what you need to get started so you are up and going within minutes! If you need Windows, you’ll be prompted to Download and Install Windows 10 OR Choose your existing Windows, Linux, Ubuntu, or Boot Camp® installation. Graphic and resource-hungry Windows applications run effortlessly without slowing down your Mac. Run the most demanding applications such as Adobe® Photoshop®, Visual Studio®, SketchUp® or AutoDesk Revit. Make Windows invisible while still using its applications in Coherence Mode, or if you’re new to Mac, you can set Windows to occupy your entire screen, so it looks just like it would if you were using a Windows PC. “Of all the ways to run Windows on a Mac, Parallels Desktop is my favorite because it just works. It's fast, it's reliable, and there's no need to futz about with confusing setting or convoluted setup processes.” Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, ZDNet “Unlike Apple’s Boot Camp, Parallels lets you run both operating systems at the same time.” Larry Magid, Forbes ”Parallels Desktop is the easiest, fastest, and most tightly integrated app for running Windows apps or the Windows desktop in Apple OS X.” Edward Mendelson, PCMag.com “It’s always been astonishing that it’s faster to start up a Parallels PC than a real one. On my MacBook Air, I’m up and running in Windows six seconds after I double-click the Parallels icon.” David Pogue, Yahoo Tech “The latest version of Parallels, the popular Windows virtualization tool for Mac OS X, almost feels like its trolling Apple.” Engadget “The software has been iterating over a decade and now makes Windows feel like part of the macOS. You can also virtualize Linux, Android, and just about anything that runs on Intel chips including another instance of macOS—great for testing macOS Betas!” 9to5Mac Optimized for the latest Windows 10 updates and macOS Catalina (10.15). Works with OS X, Windows 10, 8.1, and 7, Linux and Unix, and macOS Server. No more having to choose between PC or Mac. Add Windows applications to Touch Bar™ for instant access and customization. USB, USB-C, Thunderbolt and FireWire devices connect with Windows. Pair your Bluetooth® devices—including stylus pen and printer—to work with both Windows and macOS. Smart resizing and independent screen resolutions for separate displays. Select productivity, games, design, software testing, or development, and Parallels Desktop will optimize your VM settings and performance for you. Launch and access Windows applications right from the Mac Dock. Get the most out of your Mac with automatic Disk Space optimization. Allows Word, Excel, or PowerPoint documents in Safari to open in their native Windows Office app. Reuse your existing Boot Camp installation. Converting a virtual machine from Boot Camp is easy, just follow our installation assistant at startup. Unified volume license key, centralized license management, and advanced security features are available in Parallels Desktop Business Edition. Extend battery life while away from a power source. Over 30 one-touch tools—clean your drive, take screenshots, download a video, and more—all with just a single click. Remote access to your Mac from any iOS device, Android device, or browser with Parallels Access®. Premium 24/7 phone, email, and social support after activation. *Available with Parallels Desktop Pro Edition and Business Edition subscriptions Buy NowUpgrade Now Buy Now Súper HAPPY to be developing for #Hololens from my #Mac in a #virtualmachine for #parallelsdesktop I love it!!! pic.twitter.com/3FjG3V72Ad — Javier Campos (@x_campos) 16 мая 2018 г. Súper HAPPY to be developing for #Hololens from my #Mac in a #virtualmachine for #parallelsdesktop I love it!!! pic.twitter.com/3FjG3V72Ad Thanks to @ParallelsMac for making this unholy marriage so easy! It’s really simple as pie. #mac#windowspic.twitter.com/eDJu0qRTb8 — Sebastin Rothe (@port_noy) Thanks to @ParallelsMac for making this unholy marriage so easy! It’s really simple as pie. #mac#windowspic.twitter.com/eDJu0qRTb8 I released a first basic version of VSTouchbarTools for @VisualStudio on @ParallelsMac. Customization options are planned and contributions are welcome! https://t.co/F8by2FQAOapic.twitter.com/Rikoq31Xnq — rubito (@studiodelatorre) 7 января 2018 г. I released a first basic version of VSTouchbarTools for @VisualStudio on @ParallelsMac. Customization options are planned and contributions are welcome! https://t.co/F8by2FQAOapic.twitter.com/Rikoq31Xnq To add Windows, Linux, or another operating system to your Mac, Parallels Desktop creates a virtual machine (VM) or a virtual copy of your current Windows PC inside your Mac. You can then install Windows in the virtual machine, just as you would install any operating system on a regular computer. Run multiple OSes at the same time, all on your Mac. It’s like two computers in one! There are several ways to install Windows (or any other operating system) in a virtual machine, and Parallels Desktop makes it easy to get started within minutes. If you need Windows on your Mac, Parallels Desktop can help you download and install Windows 10. All you need to do is follow our Installation Assistant and click “Install Windows.” Or you can provide your own Microsoft Windows license key, purchase Windows directly from within Parallels Desktop, or transfer an existing Boot Camp partition with Windows already installed. With Parallels Desktop, you can switch between Mac and Windows without ever needing to reboot your computer. If you have already installed Windows 10, Windows 8.1, Windows 8, or Windows 7 on your Mac using Boot Camp, you can set Parallels Desktop to run Windows from the Boot Camp Partition or import Windows and your data from Boot Camp into Parallels Desktop as a new virtual machine. To use Windows from Boot Camp, install Parallels Desktop and follow the Installation Assistant. Play your Windows-only game on a Mac using Parallels Desktop. Parallels Desktop even has a virtual machine setting dedicated to gaming to optimize performance. With ongoing support for DirectX and OpenGL, many popular games and game engines are supported within Parallels Desktop. Download a free 14-day trial of Parallels Desktop and see if your desired game is supported. Note: Parallels Desktop for Mac emulates PC hardware, so operating systems that are not present in this list can work as well. They are not on the list because we didn't test them in our lab yet or we found some critical issues. You can download the Parallels Desktop trial and install an operating system of your choice. If it doesn't work and you believe it should be supported, let us know at Parallels Forum. Parallels Tools for Linux require X Window System version 1.15–1.20 and Linux Kernel version 2.6.29–5.1. Need Parallels Desktop for your team? Check out Parallels Desktop Business Edition. Parallels offers exclusive discounts for educational students currently enrolled in a qualified educational institution or professional educators who are currently employed. Educational discounts can save users up to 50% off by verifying their eligibility. Parallels Desktop Pro Edition is packed with extra features, including: Learn more about Parallels Desktop Pro Edition. Parallels offers a 30-day money-back guarantee on all purchases made on parallels.com. If you purchased this from another retailer, please check their return policy. User guides and resources can be found on our Technical Documentation and Resources page. Or go to Support. Check your inbox from your computer and get started with your Parallels Desktop trial today!