Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen’s spectacular re-election was no easy feat. While it is true – as some pan-democratic lawmakers said at last week’s chief executive Legislative Council question-and-answer session – that Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor, by thoroughly botching up affairs in Hong Kong, played an instrumental role in Tsai’s win, Lam was far from being the only tailwind. Tsai’s incredible comeback after hitting political rock bottom was the result of her thoroughly capitalising on Hong Kong’s explosive political circumstances and the fog of hopelessness that has settled on the city that refuses to lift. It’s almost hard to believe that it was only a year ago that Tsai was struggling against almost insurmountable headwinds. Her party had suffered a humiliating defeat in the local elections, losing control of around half of the municipalities and counties it held previously. The result was widely interpreted as a de facto vote of no confidence on Tsai’s first term as president. A year ago, Tsai had to fight off political forces from within and outside the Democratic Progressive Party. It wasn’t even clear that she would win her own party’s primary . She went on to rack up 8.17 million votes in January’s election, the highest number of votes ever secured by any candidate in a presidential election. Tsai triumphed using political shrewdness. While she might not have been a great leader – there was widespread public discontent over her policies and a cigarette-smuggling scandal – she has proven herself to be an excellent tactician. She capitalised on the political turmoil in Hong Kong that arose from an incompetent government’s push to amend the city’s extradition laws to allow the transfer of prisoners to the mainland, Macau and Taiwan. The government’s move was triggered by a murder case in Taiwan in which both the accused and victim were Hongkongers. Tsai successfully translated Hong Kong’s identity crisis , fuelled by fear and frustration, into a winning formula. She aligned Hongkongers’ fear of mainland encroachment with Taiwan’s “fate”, and amplified Hong Kong’s misfortunes to her own advantage. “Hong Kong today, Taiwan tomorrow” became her call to arms. Fear and loathing can be great political capital – Tsai rode them to victory. Refusing to be written off, she fought with both political acumen and grit. Carrie Lam should take the time to review Tsai’s playbook. Both leaders faced a reversal of political fortunes in the last year. Just last year, Lam was riding high, arrogant and complacently elitist, feigning shock as lawmakers – opponents and allies alike– slammed her for increasing the age limit for elderly welfare payments. Almost exactly one year on, the now embattled chief executive has lowered the age threshold from 65 to 60 for a public transport discount scheme, something she had refused to do just last October. She announced this ahead of her first question-and-answer session at the Legislative Council this year, pre-empting even her financial secretary, in the hope that it would be seen as a sign she was working hard for the people’s livelihood. Tsai says Beijing must face reality that Taiwan is ‘independent country’ But again, it’s too little, too late for Lam, and almost insulting to Hongkongers. After months of inaction from the government as Hong Kong burned, is this the best it could come up with? It’s true that the public transport discount scheme is a welcome government policy. Lam took a popular policy initiated by former chief executive Donald Tsang Yam-kuen and tweaked the age limit, hardly requiring much brainpower. If anything, it only reaffirms the continuing paralysis of Lam and her government. Luo Huining , the new director of the central government’s liaison office in Hong Kong, in his public speech on January 15, praised Lam for her courage. Chinese President Xi Jinping had also lauded Lam’s bravery during “these unusual times” . Lam staying on as chief executive, despite her record low popularity ratings, does not reveal so much courage as that she has an extraordinarily thick skin. She certainly needs more than that if she and her allies are to have any political future. Alice Wu is a political consultant and a former associate director of the Asia Pacific Media Network at UCLA