The Deleuze dictionary. Revised Edition Edited by Adrian Parr . 2010. micropolitics — by Kenneth Surin Deleuze and Guattari oppose micropolitics to the politics of molarisation. Where the molar (or arborescent , to use their equivalent term) designates structures and principles that are based on rigid stratifications or… … The Deleuze dictionary micropolitics — noun The use of formal and informal power by individuals and groups to achieve their goals within organizations, as opposed to macropolitics … Wiktionary Félix Guattari — Infobox Philosopher region = Western Philosophy era = 20th century philosophy color = #B0C4DE name = Pierre Félix Guattari birth = April 30, 1930 (Villeneuve les Sablons, Oise, France) death = August 29, 1992 (La Borde clinic, Cour Cheverny,… … Wikipedia History of feminism — The history of feminism is the history of feminist movements and their efforts to overturn injustices of gender inequality. Feminist scholars have divided feminism s history into three waves . Humm, Maggie. 1995. The Dictionary of Feminist Theory … Wikipedia Party system — A party system is a concept in comparative political science concerning the system of government by political parties. The idea is that political parties control the government, have a stable base of mass popular support, and create internal… … Wikipedia A Thousand Plateaus — … Wikipedia Brian Massumi — Infobox Philosopher region = Western Philosophy era = 20th / 21st century philosophy color = #B0C4DE name = Brian Massumi birth = death = school tradition = poststructuralism radical empiricism main interests = the virtual affect relation… … Wikipedia Michael J. Shapiro — Michael Shapiro Full name Michael J. Shapiro Born February 16, 1940 Era 20th century philosophy Region … Wikipedia Freudo-Marxism — is a loose designation of several twentieth century critical theory schools of thought that sought to synthesize the philosophy and political economy of Karl Marx with the psychoanalytic theory of Sigmund Freud. While the movement to integrate… … Wikipedia Walter Dean Burnham — (born 1930), is professor emeritus of political science at the University of Texas at Austin, where he held the Frank Erwin Centennial Chair in Government. He is an expert in the analysis of elections. He has been called “one of the country s pre … Wikipedia We are using cookies for the best presentation of our site. Continuing to use this site, you agree with this. OK