



 /
	Cory Doctorow /
	10:08 am Fri

		 Jul 19, 2013 	 
Hating Millennials - the prejudice you're allowed to boast about
Follow Us
Twitter /
				 Facebook /
				 RSS


Cartoonist Matt Bors got a spot on CNN for his great, scathing critique of the narrative of the lazy, narcissistic "Millennials," which has gone well beyond "get off my lawn" territory and into the realm of out-and-out demographic prejudice. Click through for the whole thing.

The generation we love to dump on
(via Geeks Are Sexy)

SHARE /
		TWEET /
		82 COMMENTS


Comics / demographics / economics / happy mutants
Patti Smith and Stewart Copeland join Choir! Choir! Choir! for "People Have the Power"
The good folks at Choir! Choir! Choir! (previously) are still doing their thing, and now they’ve included both Patti Smith and Stewart Copeland to play along: On April 13, 2019, Patti Smith + Stewart Copeland (on percussion) joined Choir! Choir! Choir! at Onassis Festival 2019: Democracy Is Coming, co-presented by The Public Theatre and Onassis […]
READ THE REST
Stargazing: Jen Wang's semi-autobiographical graphic novel for young readers is a complex tale of identity, talent, and loyalty
Jen Wang (previously) is several kinds of excellent comics person: from her debut graphic novel Koko Be Good (a complex and heartfelt take on "manic pixie dream girls") to her award-winning, bestselling, brilliant genderqueer fairy tale The Prince and the Dressmaker, to In Real Life, the middle-grades comic she adapted from my story Anda's Game […]		READ THE REST
Dynasties: in-depth reporting on the wealthy, influential political and corporate families that not-so-secretly rule Canada
The latest podcast from the Canadaland network (previously) is Dynasties, wherein host Arshy Mann delves into the scandals, backroom deals, and secret string-pulling employed by the "great families" of Canada, where wealth and political power have been gathered into just a few hands, all clinging tight to that power.		READ THE REST
Create your own corner of the web with over 70% off on a Wix Unlimited Plan
Want to build your own website? Even for a modest personal site, it was once assumed you might wait for days or weeks while a web designer hammered through arcane code on your behalf. That all sounds a little ridiculous today. And if you had to thank one company for that, it would probably be […]
READ THE REST
Learn how to play the piano, guitar, & how to DJ with the help of this training
It’s a long road from a song in your head to a song on the charts – especially if you’re just learning to play. The good news is, anyone who’s willing to practice can make music. These online classes can make that process painless, with methods that can teach anyone guitar, piano or even the […]
READ THE REST
Take this training and start crunching big data on MATLAB
If you’ve worked in any high-performing engineering lab, you already know about MATLAB. This computing environment and the language that powers it is perfectly suited to science and math, with an interface that makes it easy to express and visualize complex algorithms – not to mention an infrastructure that lets it easily work with other […]
READ THE REST
Read the rules you agree to by using this website in our Terms of Service.
We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
Boing Boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. Read about what we do with the data we gather in our Privacy Policy.
Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the Community Guidelines.
Boing Boing is published under a Creative Commons license except where otherwise noted.
 Mark Frauenfelder
Cory Doctorow
David Pescovitz
Xeni Jardin
Rob Beschizza
Carla SinclairEditors
Jason WeisbergerPublisher
Ken SniderSysadmin
 About Us
Contact Us
Advertise
Forums
Shop
Shop Support
