
The 2020 Endorsement Race Is Getting Interesting
If you’ve been following endorsements of the 2020 Democratic primary field, the biggest thing that stands out is the lack of them, as my 
colleague Geoffrey Skelley wrote recently
1
endorsement tracker
But as more and more endorsements have trickled in, some interesting patterns have begun to emerge. The Democratic Party has fissures along 
generational
ideological
racial lines
[
Our Latest Forecast: Who Will Win The 2020 Democratic Primary?
So here are some interesting trends I’ve noticed in the endorsement race so far:
1. Iowa and New Hampshire’s political classes aren’t excited about Biden or Bernie Sanders
Among the Democratic state legislators in Iowa who have endorsed a candidate, Amy Klobuchar (17) and Elizabeth Warren (12) lead, followed by Biden (11), Pete Buttigieg (6) and Sanders (1), according to 
Iowa Starting Line
2
a list compiled by University of Houston political scientist Boris Shor
3
Des Moines Register
Manchester Union-Leader
What’s going on here? After all, Biden and Sanders lead in 
national polls
Iowa
New Hampshire polls
But the strength of Klobuchar and Warren among elected officials and political power brokers in Iowa and New Hampshire is another illustration of what seems to have happened more broadly in the 2020 Democratic primary: Voters have essentially foisted Biden and Sanders onto the party — basically the reverse of what (arguably) happened in 2016, when the Democratic Party establishment 
mobilized behind Hillary Clinton
voters weren’t totally on board
Do Parties Or Voters Choose Presidential Nominees?
The huge field of candidates at the start of the 2020 process 
reflected the wariness of Democratic elites of both Biden and Sanders
New York Times’s recent decision to endorse both Klobuchar and Warren
There’s “less drive to pick a winner since it’s so unclear this year who the winner actually will be” in Iowa, said 
Pat Rynard
Perhaps these endorsements are capturing something that polls aren’t, and either Klobuchar or Warren, or both, will finish in the top three in Iowa or New Hampshire. Maybe one will win one or both of the states. Both races are still wide open. But at least right now, it looks like a big bloc of Democratic voters in Iowa and nationally don’t see anything wrong with Biden and Sanders — even if some party elites are hinting that they should.
2. In Washington, centrist Democrats really don’t want Warren or Sanders … or Buttigieg or Klobuchar
In the U.S. House, Democrats have three main ideological blocs: the 
Congressional Progressive Caucus
New Democratic Coalition
Blue Dogs
51-member Congressional Black Caucus
Hispanic Caucus
30 Democratic House members
Unsurprisingly, Biden is leading among the New Democrats (20 of 34) and the Blue Dogs (4 of 7) who have chosen a candidate. Reflecting the ideological split in the party, Sanders and Warren have just one endorsement from those groups combined.
4
concerns of center-left Democrats that Sanders and Warren’s liberalism would hurt the party electorally
Warren (11) has the most endorsements among the 26 Progressive Caucus members who have backed a candidate. But seven progressives, including the group’s two leaders, Pramila Jayapal of Washington and Mark Pocan of Wisconsin, are supporting Sanders. One of the big questions in this race is whether decidedly-liberal-but-still-establishment Democratic Party figures, including members of the Progressive Caucus, will mobilize behind Warren or Sanders if either wins Iowa and New Hampshire — or if they would echo the concerns of more centrist Democrats that the policy visions of those two are too electorally risky.
Somewhat surprisingly, Biden also has seven endorsements from the progressives. That might be a sign that Biden is more a consensus candidate among the party’s powerbrokers than Sanders or Warren, since they have so little support from more centrist figures. Secondly, it probably reinforces the argument of Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who has suggested that the Progressive Caucus is 
too ideologically diverse
she and very liberal Democrats should create their own bloc
.
playing a bigger role than ideology in this race in some ways
Speaking of … Biden has by far the most endorsements from CBC House members (15 of 19), and also leads among Hispanic members (4 of 9).
Buttigieg, who is generally considered the fourth top-tier candidate in this race, isn’t doing particularly well with any of the House factions: He doesn’t have a single endorsement from the Hispanic Caucus members or the Blue Dogs; he has one from a Progressive Caucus member, one from the CBC, one from a member in a Trump district and four among the New Democrats. Klobuchar is doing even worse — she doesn’t have a single House endorsement outside of her colleagues in the Minnesota delegation.
3. The billionaires are looking pretty good
When Bloomberg 
entered the race on Nov. 24
seemed to be successfully filling the space for a candidate
nine months after the South Bend mayor
Bloomberg is essentially tied in 
national polls
Iowa
New Hampshire
FiveThirtyEight tracker
Similarly, Tom Steyer is making some noise in 
Nevada
South Carolina
a count from the Charleston-based Post and Courier
backing of six state legislators in South Carolina
The results in Iowa and New Hampshire might lift Buttigieg or Warren, or maybe the first two states will cement Biden’s frontrunner status. In that world, 
Bloomberg
Steyer
But right now, the two 
billionaires
spending way more
boosting their standings
Secondly, if you are a Democratic official considering which candidate to endorse, it’s hard to ignore the obvious: If Bloomberg or Steyer is not elected president, they will still have millions of dollars and a demonstrated interest in spending it on politics. It’s probably smart to get on their good sides. Several of the cities run by mayors who have endorsed Bloomberg have received money from Bloomberg’s various philanthropic projects, , some of which 
invest millions of dollars in initiatives at the city level
“The fact is Steyer has invested a ton of resources in South Carolina, not just on TV and digital (though it is impossible to turn on a TV or YouTube in South Carolina these days without seeing his face), but also with a huge and well-paid staff, including a lot of field organizers,” said 
Jamie Lovegrove
4. Many key parts of the Democratic coalition are divided or on the sidelines
Finally, I just want to return to the point we started with: The absence of consensus in the Democratic Party.
The black left is anti-Biden but 
also not unified behind someone
also anti-Biden, but split between Warren and Sanders
Indivisible can’t agree on a candidate
the most labor unions backing him
are largely unified against one
Again, my colleague Geoff 
wrote about this point in more detail
To conclude, as the pre-voting endorsement period winds down, I think there is one important takeaway: the struggles of Buttigieg and Warren to build broader support among party elites.
Sanders has been essentially 
running a campaign against the Democratic Party establishment for five years
have doubts about Biden
Buttigieg
Warren
But so far, some blocs in the party have rejected them aggressively — in ways that likely convinced other blocs of Democrats that those candidates could not unify the party. When Warren nearly caught up in polls with Biden in late October, centrist figures in the party emphasized 
their concerns about her leftism and ability to win the general election
surged in Iowa a few weeks later
blasted him
The party hasn’t really chosen Biden, but it definitely hasn’t chosen Sanders, Buttigieg or Warren either. So the race is likely to be wide open as voting gets underway. The polls suggest that’s a good thing for Sanders and especially Biden.
